= DESCRIPTION:

{Opscode Chef}[http://www.opscode.com/chef/] cookbook for td-agent (Treasure Data Agent). The release log of td-agent is available {here}[http://help.treasure-data.com/kb/installing-td-agent-daemon/changelog-of-td-agent].

NOTE: td-agent is open-sourced as {Fluentd project}[http://github.com/fluent/]. If you want to use stable version of Fluentd, using this cookbook is recommended.

= INSTALLATION:

The {knife-github-cookbooks}[https://github.com/websterclay/knife-github-cookbooks] gem is a plugin for knife that supports installing cookbooks directly from a GitHub repository. To install with this plugin, please follow these steps:

    $ gem install knife-github-cookbooks
    $ cd chef-repo
    $ knife cookbook github install treasure-data/chef-td-agent

= REQUIREMENTS:

This cookbook has these external dependencies.

- apt cookbook
- yum cookbook

= ATTRIBUTES:

== api_key

API Key is required if you want to use TD's service

- node[:td_agent][:api_key]

== plugins

A list of fluentd plugins to install. The +fluent-plugin-+ prefix is automatically added. Additional variables can be passed.

- node[:td_agent][:plugins]

=== Example

This installs the latest version of +fluent-plugin-flowcounter+ and version 0.0.9 of +fluent-plugin-rewrite+.

    node[:td_agent][:plugins] = [
      "flowcounter",
      { "rewrite" => { "version" => "0.0.9" } }
    ]

== version

If `version` is provided, then `version`s td-agent will be installed. The default `version` is latest version.

- node[:td_agent][:version]

=== Limitation

`version` attributes are now available for `rpm` package.
The td-agent repository now use `reprepro` for building Deb repository.
`reprepro` can not handle multiple versions of the same package.

= RESOURCES / PROVIDERS:

== td_agent_gem

Installs a gem or fluentd plugin using the embedded +fluent-gem+

=== Actions
*Action*::  *Description*
install::   Install the gem, optinally with a specific version. Default.
upgrade::   Upgrade to the latest gem
remove::    Remove the gem
purge::     Purge the gem

=== Attributes
*Attribute*::   *Description*
package_name::  Gem name. Defaults to +name+
version::       Gem version. Installs the latest if none specified
source::        Local .gem file
options::       Options passed to the gem command
gem_binary::    Override path to the gem command
response_file:: Not supported
plugin::        If true, no need to prefix the gem name w/ "fluent-plugin-". Defaults to +false+

=== Examples

This installs +fluent-plugin-datacounter+ (v0.1.8)

    td_agent_gem "datacounter" do
      version "0.1.8"
      plugin true
    end

This installs the latest version of +aws-sdk+

    td_agent_gem "aws-sdk" do
      plugin false
    end

= USAGE:

This is an example config:

  "run_list": [
    "recipe[td-agent]"
  ],
  "td_agent": {
    "sources": {
      "default": {
        "type": "tail",
        "path": "/var/log/httpd-access.log",
        "pos_file": "/var/log/td-agent/httpd-access.log.pos",
        "tag": "hoteru.production"
      }
    },
    "matches": {
      "s3": {
        "pattern": "hoteru.*",
        "type": "s3",
        "aws_key_id": "YOUR_AWS_KEY_ID",
        "aws_sec_key": "YOUR_AWS_SECRET",
        "s3_bucket": "YOUR_S3_BUCKET_NAME",
        "s3_endpoint": "s3-us-west-1.amazonaws.com",
        "path": "logs/",
        "buffer_path": "/var/log/fluent/s3",
        "time_slice_format": "%Y%m%d%H",
        "time_slice_wait": "10m",
        "utc": "",
        "buffer_chunk_limit": "256m"
      }
    }
